layout: post
title: "1"
date: 2021-04-04 12:00:00 -0000
categories: 

The guard handed him tobacco, the gesture in contrast to expressionless features. He gratefully accepted through the bars, before returning to his desk. The dim light from a lamp illuminated the foil packet, and the strands of herbs nestled inside. Sighing, Austin began his nightly ritual of going over exactly where and how he’d ended up here. Wherever here was. For an email someone else had sent to him.
He wasn’t being tortured, thankfully, the people holding him clearly already knew everything he had been exposed to. He shook his head, leaning forward over the desk and procuring a filter and some paper. *Madness!*
The people holding him weren’t so bad. Licking the paper, sealing the cigarette, he reclined as much as the chair allowed and lit it, taking a long drag, before starting at a figure in his doorway. 
“Hello Austin, may I come in?”
Austin, feeling his unpleasant craving fading away, grunted and nodded, cautiously backed away from the door, and took another drag. 
“Please, do not be afraid, I imagine you have some questions, and I’m here to answer them for you, and make your stay here as pleasant as possible.”
Austin raised an eyebrow and said, “my stay?”. The woman met this with a smirk, “extended stay.” 
He grimaced, reality in all its sobriety like a dagger. “We’ll provide for you, worry not. I’m sure you’ve realised this is not quite a standard prison. Requests for material objects will be assessed, and if we can accommodate we will. We have a well stocked library, and our funds are considerable.” She smiled.
“I don’t suppose there’s any chance of a terminal?” *Worth a shot* 
“We can make provisions, without an ethernet port of course.”
He raised an eyebrow, but nodded.
“You’ll have one, it won’t have much on it but, from what I know about you, that won’t be a deal-breaker”
“Why are you keeping me like this? Why these conditions, why not just kill me?”
“Oh we’re far too  civilized for that. I’ll see you soon”
She stood up suddenly, strode towards the door before turning to him.
“For the purposes of effective communication, you can refer to me as Catherine”, then she was out of sight, and the door closed tight. 
He placed his cigarette in his mouth, took another puff and tilted his face toward the ceiling.
What the hell is going on?

===

They brought him a computer. It was barebones to be sure, but it had enough silicon to pass the time. There’d been some a proprietary compiler, and a few hundred megs . This was his way of being creative, he’d explained to the woman or women. He was no longer sure, every time he'd been questioned there had been subtle differences. Other prisoners, she (they?) had told him had passed the time with art or writing. He was one of the only people in the facility trained to operate computers this way, which admittedly wasn’t that impressive. The prison library had contained a book about programming chess computers, and he had been provided with a chess set. 

*I shouldn’t be here*, he mused one morning. It had been a slip of the fingers, and mistake in some form made by some bureaucrat, and now here he was, locking up, and going pale in a cell, with only a mediocre computer program and some wooden trinkets for company. He wondered at the cushy nature of the prison. Really the only punishment being the lack of freedom, things didn’t seem so bad for a political prisoner. They wouldn’t have arrested him if it had been entirely false, would they. Which begged the question…

“What part of the information is real?” the interrogator was shocked, “that’s really the question you’re asking?”, he had to be cautious here, “yes, that and why I’m alive, in humane conditions.”
The interrogator, thought for a moment then spoke:
  “I will answer what I can, for one I don’t know if I would call a concrete cube humane, but we’re not monsters. That and, most assuredly, this kind of facility doesn’t cost that much in the grand scheme.”
“Not that there is a grand scheme is there?”
“I’m not at liberty to discuss the details of that, but the circumstances matter. The person responsible for your current predicament is not having quite such a nice time.” Their voice betrayed no hint of the emphasis in that sentence which might have given away the true scale of punishment his boss’ boss was going through. None of these staff had referred to them by name, and the habit had osmosed to his own speech. 

It suddenly struck him that he couldn’t quite remember his own name either.

“You’ll be allowed to meet the other residents once we’ve done some paperwork,” a smile, “you know how the wheels of bureaucracy turn.” Then a gesture in the direction of his terminal. “Have the facilities been satisfactory?”
He nodded, trying  to hold that previous thought in his mind, without letting it slip. “I’ve got enough stuff working on there to keep me occupied, thank you.” *No, that speech was all stiff, now they’ll know I’m freaking out.* He couldn’t remember his own name. 
“Is everything alright?”
*Shit, think*
“Can I - can I have a more advanced chess book? I need to get better at programming the damn thing, and it’s already beating me.”
*A good enough diversion*
Eyes narrowing, they nodded, “yes, that can be arranged, I’ll see you next week shall I?”

===